Boa constrictors swallow their prey whole, without chewing it. After that they are not able to move, and they sleep through the six months that they need for digestion.Frighten? Why should any one be frightened by a hat?That is a hat.If you please--draw me a sheep!What!Draw me a sheep!But--what are you doing here?If you please--draw me a sheep . . .That doesn't matter. Draw me a sheep . . .No, no, no! I do not want an elephant inside a boa constrictor. A boa constrictor is a very dangerous creature, and an elephant is very cumbersome. Where I live, everything is very small. What I need is a sheep. Draw me a sheep.No. This sheep is already very sickly. Make me another.You see yourself,that this is not a sheep. This is a ram. It has horns.This one is too old. I want a sheep that will live a long time.This is only his box. The sheep you asked for is inside.That is exactly the way I wanted it! Do you think that this sheep will have to have a great deal of grass?Why?Because where I live everything is very small . . .There will surely be enough grass for him,It is a very small sheep that I have given you.Not so small that--Look! He has gone to sleep . . .What is that object?That is not an object. It flies. It is an airplane. It is my airplane.What! You dropped down from the sky?Yes,Oh! That is funny!So you, too, come from the sky! Which is your planet?Do you come from another planet?It is true that on that you can't have come from very far away . . .other planets.My little man, where do you come from? What is this 'where I live,' of which you speak? Where do you want to take your sheep?The thing that is so good about the box you have given me is that at night he can use it as his house.That is so. And if you are good I will give you a string, too, so that you can tie him during the day, and a post to tie him to.Tie him! What a queer idea!But if you don't tie him,he will wander off somewhere, and get lost.But where do you think he would go?Anywhere. Straight ahead of him.That doesn't matter. Where I live, everything is so small!Straight ahead of him, nobody can go very far . . .Asteroid 325.What does his voice sound like? What games does he love best? Does he collect butterflies?How old is he? How many brothers has he? How much does he weigh? How much money does his father make?I saw a beautiful house made of rosy brick, with geraniums in the windows and doves on the roof,I saw a house that cost $20,000.Oh, what a pretty house that is!The proof that the little prince existed is that he was charming, that he laughed, and that he was looking for a sheep. If anybody wants a sheep, that is a proof that he exists.The planet he came from is Asteroid B-612,Once upon a time there was a little prince who lived on a planet that was scarcely any bigger than himself, and who had need of a sheep . . .It is true, isn't it, that sheep eat little bushes?Yes, that is true.Ah! I am glad!Then it follows that they also eat baobabs?We would have to put them one on top of the other,Before they grow so big, the baobabs start out by being little.That is strictly correct,But why do you want the sheep to eat the little baobabs?Oh, come, come!It is a question of discipline,When you've finished your own toilet in the morning, then it is time to attend to the toilet of your planet, just so, with the greatest care. You must see to it that you pull up regularly all the baobabs, at the very first moment when they can be distinguished from the rosebushes which they resemble so closely in their earliest youth. It is very tedious work,but very easy.You ought to make a beautiful drawing, so that the children where you live can see exactly how all this is. That would be very useful to them if they were to travel some day. Sometimes,there is no harm in putting off a piece of work until another day. But when it is a matter of baobabs, that always means a catastrophe. I knew a planet that was inhabited by a lazy man. He neglected three little bushes . . .Children,watch out for the baobabs!Why are there no other drawing in this book as magnificent and impressive as this drawing of the baobabs?I am very fond of sunsets. Come, let us go look at a sunset now.But we must wait,Wait? For what?For the sunset. We must wait until it is time.I am always thinking that I am at home!One day,I saw the sunset forty-four times!You know--one loves the sunset, when one is so sad . . .Were you so sad, then?on the day of the forty-four sunsets?A sheep--if it eats little bushes, does it eat flowers, too?A sheep,eats anything it finds in its reach.Even flowers that have thorns?Yes, even flowers that have thorns.Then the thorns--what use are they?The thorns--what use are they?The thorns are of no use at all. Flowers have thorns just for spite!Oh!I don't believe you! Flowers are weak creatures. They are na?ve. They reassure themselves as best they can. They believe that their thorns are terrible weapons . . .If this bolt still won't turn, I am going to knock it out with the hammer.And you actually believe that the flowers--Oh, no!No, no, no! I don't believe anything. I answered you with the first thing that came into my head. Don't you see--I am very busy with matters of consequence!Matters of consequence!You talk just like the grown-ups!You mix everything up together . . . You confuse everything . . .I know a planet where there is a certain red-faced gentleman. He has never smelled a flower. He has never looked at a star. He has never loved any one. He has never done anything in his life but add up figures. And all day he says over and over, just like you: 'I am busy with matters of consequence!' And that makes him swell up with pride. But he is not a man--he is a mushroom!A what?A mushroom!The flowers have been growing thorns for millions of years. For millions of years the sheep have been eating them just the same. And is it not a matter of consequence to try to understand why the flowers go to so much trouble to grow thorns which are never of any use to them? Is the warfare between the sheep and the flowers not important? Is this not of more consequence than a fat red-faced gentleman's sums? And if I know--I, myself--one flower which is unique in the world, which grows nowhere but on my planet, but which one little sheep can destroy in a single bite some morning, without even noticing what he is doing-- Oh! You think that is not important!If some one loves a flower, of which just one single blossom grows in all the millions and millions of stars, it is enough to make him happy just to look at the stars. He can say to himself, 'Somewhere, my flower is there . . .' But if the sheep eats the flower, in one moment all his stars will be darkened . . . And you think that is not important!The flower that you love is not in danger. I will draw you a muzzle for your sheep. I will draw you a railing to put around your flower. I will--Ah! I am scarcely awake. I beg that you will excuse me. My petals are still all disarranged . . .Oh! How beautiful you are!Am I not?And I was born at the same moment as the sun . . .I think it is time for breakfast,If you would have the kindness to think of my needs--Let the tigers come with their claws!There are no tigers on my planet,And, anyway, tigers do not eat weeds.I am not a weed,Please excuse me . . .I am not at all afraid of tigers,but I have a horror of drafts. I suppose you wouldn't have a screen for me?A horror of drafts--that is bad luck, for a plant,This flower is a very complex creature . . .At night I want you to put me under a glass globe. It is very cold where you live. In the place I came from- -The screen?I was just going to look for it when you spoke to me . . .I ought not to have listened to her,One never ought to listen to the flowers. One should simply look at them and breathe their fragrance. Mine perfumed all my planet. But I did not know how to take pleasure in all her grace. This tale of claws, which disturbed me so much, should only have filled my heart with tenderness and pity.The fact is that I did not know how to understand anything! I ought to have judged by deeds and not by words. She cast her fragrance and her radiance over me. I ought never to have run away from her . . . I ought to have guessed all the affection that lay behind her poor little stratagems. Flowers are so inconsistent! But I was too young to know how to love her . . .One never knows!Goodbye,Goodbye,I have been silly,I ask your forgiveness. Try to be happy . . .Of course I love you,It is my fault that you have not known it all the while. That is of no importance. But you--you have been just as foolish as I. Try to be happy . . . Let the glass globe be. I don't want it any more.But the wind--My cold is not so bad as all that . . . The cool night air will do me good. I am a flower.But the animals--Well, I must endure the presence of two or three caterpillars if I wish to become acquainted with the butterflies. It seems that they are very beautiful. And if not the butterflies--and the caterpillars--who will call upon me? You will be far away . . . As for the large animals--I am not at all afraid of any of them. I have my claws.Don't linger like this. You have decided to go away. Now go!Ah! Here is a subject,How could he recognize me when he had never seen me before?Approach, so that I may see you better,It is contrary to etiquette to yawn in the presence of a king,I forbid you to do so.I can't help it. I can't stop myself,I have come on a long journey, and I have had no sleep . . .Ah, then,I order you to yawn. It is years since I have seen anyone yawning. Yawns, to me, are objects of curiosity. Come, now! Yawn again! It is an order.That frightens me . . . I cannot, any more . . .Hum! Hum!Then I--I order you sometimes to yawn and sometimes to--If I ordered a general,if I ordered a general to change himself into a sea bird, and if the general did not obey me, that would not be the fault of the general. It would be my fault.May I sit down?I order you to do so,Sire,I beg that you will excuse my asking you a question--I order you to ask me a question,Sire--over what do you rule?Over everything,Over everything?Over all that?Over all that,And the stars obey you?Certainly they do,They obey instantly. I do not permit insubordination.I should like to see a sunset . . . Do me that kindness . . . Order the sun to set . . .If I ordered a general to fly from one flower to another like a butterfly, or to write a tragic drama, or to change himself into a sea bird, and if the general did not carry out the order that he had received, which one of us would be in the wrong?The general, or myself?You,Exactly. One must require from each one the duty which each one can perform,Accepted authority rests first of all on reason. If you ordered your people to go and throw themselves into the sea, they would rise up in revolution. I have the right to require obedience because my orders are reasonable.Then my sunset?You shall have your sunset. I shall command it. But, according to my science of government, I shall wait until conditions are favorable.When will that be?Hum! Hum!Hum! Hum! That will be about--about--that will be this evening about twenty minutes to eight. And you will see how well I am obeyed!I have nothing more to do here,So I shall set out on my way again.Do not go,Do not go. I will make you a Minister!Minister of what?Minster of--of Justice!But there is nobody here to judge!We do not know that,I have not yet made a complete tour of my kingdom. I am very old. There is no room here for a carriage. And it tires me to walk.Oh, but I have looked already!Then you shall judge yourself,that is the most difficult thing of all. It is much more difficult to judge oneself than to judge others. If you succeed in judging yourself rightly, then you are indeed a man of true wisdom.Yes,but I can judge myself anywhere. I do not need to live on this planet.   said the king.   replied the little prince,   said the king. But the little prince, having now completed his preparations for departure, had no wish to grieve the old monarch.  he said,  As the king made no answer, the little prince hesitated a moment. Then, with a sigh, he took his leave.  the king called out, hastily. He had a magnificent air of authority. Ah! Ah! I am about to receive a visit from an admirer!Good morning,That is a queer hat you are wearing.It is a hat for salutes,It is to raise in salute when people acclaim me. Unfortunately, nobody at all ever passes this way.Yes?Clap your hands, one against the other,This is more entertaining than the visit to the king,And what should one do to make the hat come down?Do you really admire me very much?What does that mean--'admire'?To admire means that you regard me as the handsomest, the best-dressed, the richest, and the most intelligent man on this planet.But you are the only man on your planet!Do me this kindness. Admire me just the same.I admire you,but what is there in that to interest you so much?The grown-ups are certainly very odd,What are you doing there?I am drinking,Why are you drinking?So that I may forget,Forget what?Forget that I am ashamed,Ashamed of what?Ashamed of drinking!The grown-ups are certainly very, very odd,Good morning,Your cigarette has gone out.Three and two make five. Five and seven make twelve. Twelve and three make fifteen. Good morning. FIfteen and seven make twenty-two. Twenty-two and six make twenty-eight. I haven't time to light it again. Twenty-six and five make thirty-one. Phew! Then that makes five-hundred-and-one million, six-hundredtwenty-two-thousand, seven-hundred-thirty-one.Five hundred million what?Eh? Are you still there? Five-hundred-and-one million--I can't stop . . . I have so much to do! I am concerned with matters of consequence. I don't amuse myself with balderdash. Two and five make seven . . .Five-hundred-and-one million what?During the fifty-four years that I have inhabited this planet, I have been disturbed only three times. The first time was twenty-two years ago, when some giddy goose fell from goodness knows where. He made the most frightful noise that resounded all over the place, and I made four mistakes in my addition. The second time, eleven years ago, I was disturbed by an attack of rheumatism. I don't get enough exercise. I have no time for loafing. The third time--well, this is it! I was saying, then, five-hundred-and-one millions-- Millions of what?Millions of those little objects,which one sometimes sees in the sky.Flies?Oh, no. Little glittering objects.Bees?Oh, no. Little golden objects that set lazy men to idle dreaming. As for me, I am concerned with matters of consequence. There is no time for idle dreaming in my life.Ah! You mean the stars?Yes, that's it. The stars.And what do you do with five-hundred millions of stars?Five-hundred-and-one million, six-hundred-twenty-two thousand, seven-hundred-thirty-one. I am concerned with matters of consequence: I am accurate.And what do you do with these stars?What do I do with them?Yes.Nothing. I own them.You own the stars?Yes.But I have already seen a king who--Kings do not own, they reign over. It is a very different matter.And what good does it do you to own the stars?It does me the good of making me rich.And what good does it do you to be rich?It makes it possible for me to buy more stars, if any are discovered.This man,reasons a little like my poor tippler . . .How is it possible for one to own the stars?To whom do they belong?I don't know. To nobody.Then they belong to me, because I was the first person to think of it.Is that all that is necessary?Certainly. When you find a diamond that belongs to nobody, it is yours. When you discover an island that belongs to nobody, it is yours. When you get an idea before any one else, you take out a patent on it: it is yours. So with me: I own the stars, because nobody else before me ever thought of owning them.Yes, that is true,And what do you do with them?I administer them,I count them and recount them. It is difficult. But I am a man who is naturally interested in matters of consequence.If I owned a silk scarf,I could put it around my neck and take it away with me. If I owned a flower, I could pluck that flower and take it away with me. But you cannot pluck the stars from heaven . . .No. But I can put them in the bank.Whatever does that mean?That means that I write the number of my stars on a little paper. And then I put this paper in a drawer and lock it with a key.And that is all?That is enough,It is entertaining,It is rather poetic. But it is of no great consequence.I myself own a flower,which I water every day. I own three volcanoes, which I clean out every week (for I also clean out the one that is extinct; one never knows). It is of some use to my volcanoes, and it is of some use to my flower, that I own them. But you are of no use to the stars . . .The grown-ups are certainly altogether extraordinary,It may well be that this man is absurd. But he is not so absurd as the king, the conceited man, the businessman, and the tippler. For at least his work has some meaning. When he lights his street lamp, it is as if he brought one more star to life, or one flower. When he puts out his lamp, he sends the flower, or the star, to sleep. That is a beautiful occupation. And since it is beautiful, it is truly useful.Good morning. Why have you just put out your lamp?Those are the orders,Good morning.What are the orders?The orders are that I put out my lamp. Good evening.But why have you just lighted it again?Those are the orders,I do not understand,There is nothing to understand,Orders are orders. Good morning.I follow a terrible profession. In the old days it was reasonable. I put the lamp out in the morning, and in the evening I lighted it again. I had the rest of the day for relaxation and the rest of the night for sleep.And the orders have been changed since that time?The orders have not been changed,That is the tragedy! From year to year the planet has turned more rapidly and the orders have not been changed!Then what?Then--the planet now makes a complete turn every minute, and I no longer have a single second for repose. Once every minute I have to light my lamp and put it out!That is very funny! A day lasts only one minute, here where you live!It is not funny at all!While we have been talking together a month has gone by.A month?Yes, a month. Thirty minutes. Thirty days. Good evening.You know,I can tell you a way you can rest whenever you want to. . .I always want to rest,Your planet is so small that three strides will take you all the way around it. To be always in the sunshine, you need only walk along rather slowly. When you want to rest, you will walk--and the day will last as long as you like.That doesn't do me much good,The one thing I love in life is to sleep.Then you're unlucky,I am unlucky,Good morning.That man,that man would be scorned by all the others: by the king, by the conceited man, by the tippler, by the businessman. Nevertheless he is the only one of them all who does not seem to me ridiculous. Perhaps that is because he is thinking of something else besides himself.That man is the only one of them all whom I could have made my friend. But his planet is indeed too small. There is no room on it for two people. . .Oh, look! Here is an explorer!Where do you come from?What is that big book?What are you doing?I am a geographer,What is a geographer?A geographer is a scholar who knows the location of all the seas, rivers, towns, mountains, and deserts.That is very interesting,Here at last is a man who has a real profession!Your planet is very beautiful,Has it any oceans?I couldn't tell you,Ah!Has it any mountains?I couldn't tell you,And towns, and rivers, and deserts?I couldn't tell you that, either.But you are a geographer!Exactly,But I am not an explorer. I haven't a single explorer on my planet. It is not the geographer who goes out to count the towns, the rivers, the mountains, the seas, the oceans, and the deserts. The geographer is much too important to go loafing about. He does not leave his desk. But he receives the explorers in his study. He asks them questions, and he notes down what they recall of their travels. And if the recollections of any one among them seem interesting to him, the geographer orders an inquiry into that explorer's moral character.Why is that?Because an explorer who told lies would bring disaster on the books of the geographer. So would an explorer who drank too much.Why is that?Because intoxicated men see double. Then the geographer would note down two mountains in a place where there was only one.I know some one,who would make a bad explorer.That is possible. Then, when the moral character of the explorer is shown to be good, an inquiry is ordered into his discovery.One goes to see it?No. That would be too complicated. But one requires the explorer to furnish proofs. For example, if the discovery in question is that of a large mountain, one requires that large stones be brought back from it.But you--you come from far away! You are an explorer! You shall describe your planet to me!Well?Oh, where I live,it is not very interesting. It is all so small. I have three volcanoes. Two volcanoes are active and the other is extinct. But one never knows.One never knows,I have also a flower.We do not record flowers,Why is that? The flower is the most beautiful thing on my planet!We do not record them,because they are ephemeral.What does that mean--'ephemeral'?Geographies,are the books which, of all books, are most concerned with matters of consequence. They never become old-fashioned. It is very rarely that a mountain changes its position. It is very rarely that an ocean empties itself of its waters. We write of eternal things.But extinct volcanoes may come to life again,What does that mean-- 'ephemeral'?Whether volcanoes are extinct or alive, it comes to the same thing for us,The thing that matters to us is the mountain. It does not change.But what does that mean--'ephemeral'?It means, 'which is in danger of speedy disappearance.'Is my flower in danger of speedy disappearance?Certainly it is.My flower is ephemeral,and she has only four thorns to defend herself against the world. And I have left her on my planet, all alone!What place would you advise me to visit now?The planet Earth,It has a good reputation.Good evening,Good evening,What planet is this on which I have come down?This is the Earth; this is Africa,Ah! Then there are no people on the Earth?This is the desert. There are no people in the desert. The Earth is large,I wonder,whether the stars are set alight in heaven so that one day each one of us may find his own again . . . Look at my planet. It is right there above us. But how far away it is!It is beautiful,What has brought you here?I have been having some trouble with a flower,Ah!Where are the men?It is a little lonely in the desert . . .It is also lonely among men,You are a funny animal,You are no thicker than a finger . . .But I am more powerful than the finger of a king,You are not very powerful. You haven't even any feet. You cannot even travel . . .I can carry you farther than any ship could take you,Whomever I touch, I send back to the earth from whence he came,But you are innocent and true, and you come from a star . . .You move me to pity--you are so weak on this Earth made of granite,I can help you, some day, if you grow too homesick for your own planet. I can--Oh! I understand you very well,But why do you always speak in riddles?I solve them all,Good morning,Good morning,Where are the men?Men?I think there are six or seven of them in existence. I saw them, several years ago. But one never knows where to find them. The wind blows them away. They have no roots, and that makes their life very difficult.Goodbye,Goodbye,From a mountain as high as this one,I shall be able to see the whole planet at one glance, and all the people . . .Good morning,Good morning--Good morning--Good morning,Who are you?Who are you--Who are you--Who are you?Be my friends. I am all alone,I am all alone--all alone--all alone,What a queer planet!It is altogether dry, and altogether pointed, and altogether harsh and forbidding. And the people have no imagination. They repeat whatever one says to them . . . On my planet I had a flower; she always was the first to speak . . .Good morning,Good morning,Who are you?We are roses,She would be very much annoyed,if she should see that . . . She would cough most dreadfully, and she would pretend that she was dying, to avoid being laughed at. And I should be obliged to pretend that I was nursing her back to life--for if I did not do that, to humble myself also, she would really allow herself to die. . .I thought that I was rich, with a flower that was unique in all the world; and all I had was a common rose. A common rose, and three volcanoes that come up to my knees-- and one of them perhaps extinct forever . . . That doesn't make me a very great prince . . .Good morning,Good morning,I am right here,under the apple tree.Who are you?You are very pretty to look at.I am a fox,Come and play with me,I am so unhappy.I cannot play with you,I am not tamed.Ah! Please excuse me,What does that mean--'tame'?You do not live here,What is it that you are looking for?I am looking for men,What does that mean--'tame'?Men,They have guns, and they hunt. It is very disturbing. They also raise chickens. These are their only interests. Are you looking for chickens?No,I am looking for friends. What does that mean--'tame'?It is an act too often neglected,It means to establish ties.'To establish ties'?Just that,To me, you are still nothing more than a little boy who is just like a hundred thousand other little boys. And I have no need of you. And you, on your part, have no need of me. To you, I am nothing more than a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But if you tame me, then we shall need each other. To me, you will be unique in all the world. To you, I shall be unique in all the world . . .I am beginning to understand,There is a flower . . . I think that she has tamed me . . .It is possible,On the Earth one sees all sorts of things.Oh, but this is not on the Earth!On another planet?Yes.Are there hunters on that planet?No.Ah, that is interesting! Are there chickens?No.Nothing is perfect,My life is very monotonous,I hunt chickens; men hunt me. All the chickens are just alike, and all the men are just alike. And, in consequence, I am a little bored. But if you tame me, it will be as if the sun came to shine on my life. I shall know the sound of a step that will be different from all the others. Other steps send me hurrying back underneath the ground. Yours will call me, like music, out of my burrow. And then look: you see the grain-fields down yonder? I do not eat bread. Wheat is of no use to me. The wheat fields have nothing to say to me. And that is sad. But you have hair that is the color of gold. Think how wonderful that will be when you have tamed me! The grain, which is also golden, will bring me back the thought of you. And I shall love to listen to the wind in the wheat . . .Please--tame me!I want to, very much,But I have not much time. I have friends to discover, and a great many things to understand.One only understands the things that one tames,Men have no more time to understand anything. They buy things all ready made at the shops. But there is no shop anywhere where one can buy friendship, and so men have no friends any more. If you want a friend, tame me . . .What must I do, to tame you?You must be very patient,First you will sit down at a little distance from me--like that-- in the grass. I shall look at you out of the corner of my eye, and you will say nothing. Words are the source of misunderstandings. But you will sit a little closer to me, every day . . .It would have been better to come back at the same hour,If, for example, you come at four o'clock in the afternoon, then at three o'clock I shall begin to be happy. I shall feel happier and happier as the hour advances. At four o'clock, I shall already be worrying and jumping about. I shall show you how happy I am! But if you come at just any time, I shall never know at what hour my heart is to be ready to greet you . . . One must observe the proper rites . . .What is a rite?Those also are actions too often neglected,They are what make one day different from other days, one hour from other hours. There is a rite, for example, among my hunters. Every Thursday they dance with the village girls. So Thursday is a wonderful day for me! I can take a walk as far as the vineyards. But if the hunters danced at just any time, every day would be like every other day, and I should never have any vacation at all.Ah,I shall cry.It is your own fault,I never wished you any sort of harm; but you wanted me to tame you . . .Yes, that is so,But now you are going to cry!Yes, that is so,Then it has done you no good at all!It has done me good,because of the color of the wheat fields.Go and look again at the roses. You will understand now that yours is unique in all the world. Then come back to say goodbye to me, and I will make you a present of a secret.You are not at all like my rose,As yet you are nothing. No one has tamed you, and you have tamed no one. You are like my fox when I first knew him. He was only a fox like a hundred thousand other foxes. But I have made him my friend, and now he is unique in all the world.You are beautiful, but you are empty,One could not die for you. To be sure, an ordinary passerby would think that my rose looked just like you--the rose that belongs to me. But in herself alone she is more important than all the hundreds of you other roses: because it is she that I have watered; because it is she that I have put under the glass globe; because it is she that I have sheltered behind the screen; because it is for her that I have killed the caterpillars (except the two or three that we saved to become butterflies); because it is she that I have listened to, when she grumbled, or boasted, or ever sometimes when she said nothing. Because she is my rose.Goodbye,Goodbye,And now here is my secret, a very simple secret: It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.What is essential is invisible to the eye,It is the time you have wasted for your rose that makes your rose so important.It is the time I have wasted for my rose--Men have forgotten this truth,But you must not forget it. You become responsible, forever, for what you have tamed. You are responsible for your rose . . .I am responsible for my rose,Good morning,Good morning,What do you do here?I sort out travelers, in bundles of a thousand,I send off the trains that carry them: now to the right, now to the left.They are in a great hurry,What are they looking for?Not even the locomotive engineer knows that,Are they coming back already?These are not the same ones,It is an exchange.Were they not satisfied where they were?No one is ever satisfied where he is,Are they pursuing the first travelers?They are pursuing nothing at all,They are asleep in there, or if they are not asleep they are yawning. Only the children are flattening their noses against the windowpanes.Only the children know what they are looking for,They waste their time over a rag doll and it becomes very important to them; and if anybody takes it away from them, they cry . . .They are lucky,Good morning,Good morning,Why are you selling those?Because they save a tremendous amount of time,Computations have been made by experts. With these pills, you save fifty-three minutes in every week.And what do I do with those fifty-three minutes?Anything you like . . .As for me,if I had fifty-three minutes to spend as I liked, I should walk at my leisure toward a spring of fresh water.Ah,these memories of yours are very charming; but I have not yet succeeded in repairing my plane; I have nothing more to drink; and I, too, should be very happy if I could walk at my leisure toward a spring of fresh water!My friend the fox--My dear little man, this is no longer a matter that has anything to do with the fox!Why not?Because I am about to die of thirst . . .It is a good thing to have had a friend, even if one is about to die. I, for instance, am very glad to have had a fox as a friend . . .He has no way of guessing the danger,He has never been either hungry or thirsty. A little sunshine is all he needs . . .I am thirsty, too. Let us look for a well . . .Then you are thirsty, too?Water may also be good for the heart . . .The stars are beautiful, because of a flower that cannot be seen.Yes, that is so.The desert is beautiful,What makes the desert beautiful,is that somewhere it hides a well . . .Yes,The house, the stars, the desert--what gives them their beauty is something that is invisible!I am glad,that you agree with my fox.What I see here is nothing but a shell. What is most important is invisible . . .What moves me so deeply, about this little prince who is sleeping here, is his loyalty to a flower--the image of a rose that shines through his whole being like the flame of a lamp, even when he is asleep . . .Men,set out on their way in express trains, but they do not know what they are looking for. Then they rush about, and get excited, and turn round and round . . .It is not worth the trouble . . .It is strange,Everything is ready for use: the pulley, the bucket, the rope . . .Do you hear?We have wakened the well, and it is singing . . .Leave it to me,It is too heavy for you.I am thirsty for this water,Give me some of it to drink . . .The men where you live,raise five thousand roses in the same garden--and they do not find in it what they are looking for.They do not find it,And yet what they are looking for could be found in one single rose, or in a little water.Yes, that is true,But the eyes are blind. One must look with the heart . . .You must keep your promise,What promise?You know--a muzzle for my sheep . . . I am responsible for this flower . . .Your baobabs--they look a little like cabbages.Oh!Your fox--his ears look a little like horns; and they are too long.You are not fair, little prince,I don't know how to draw anything except boa constrictors from the outside and boa constrictors from the inside.Oh, that will be all right,children understand.You have plans that I do not know about,You know--my descent to the earth . . . Tomorrow will be its anniversary.I came down very near here.Then it was not by chance that on the morning when I first met you--a week ago--you were strolling along like that, all alone, a thousand miles from any inhabited region? You were on the your back to the place where you landed?Perhaps it was because of the anniversary?YesAh,I am a little frightened--Now you must work. You must return to your engine. I will be waiting for you here. Come back tomorrow evening . . .Then you don't remember. This is not the exact spot.Yes, yes! It is the right day, but this is not the place.--Exactly. You will see where my track begins, in the sand. You have nothing to do but wait for me there. I shall be there tonight.You have good poison? You are sure that it will not make me suffer too long?Now go away,I want to get down from the wall.What does this mean?Why are you talking with snakes?I am glad that you have found what was the matter with your engine,Now you can go back home--How do you know about that?I, too, am going back home today . . .It is much farther . . . It is much more difficult . . .I have your sheep. And I have the sheep's box. And I have the muzzle . . .Dear little man,you are afraid . . .I shall be much more afraid this evening . . .Little man,I want to hear you laugh again.Tonight, it will be a year . . . My star, then, can be found right above the place where I came to the Earth, a year ago . . .Little man,tell me that it is only a bad dream--this affair of the snake, and the meeting-place, and the star . . .The thing that is important is the thing that is not seen . . .Yes, I know . . .It is just as it is with the flower. If you love a flower that lives on a star, it is sweet to look at the sky at night. All the stars are a-bloom with flowers . . .Yes, I know . . .
It is just as it is with the water. Because of the pulley, and the rope, what you gave me to drink was like music. You remember--how good it was.Yes, I know . . .And at night you will look up at the stars. Where I live everything is so small that I cannot show you where my star is to be found. It is better, like that. My star will just be one of the stars, for you. And so you will love to watch all the stars in the heavens . . . they will all be your friends. And, besides, I am going to make you a present . . .Ah, little prince, dear little prince! I love to hear that laughter!That is my present. Just that. It will be as it was when we drank the water . . .What are you trying to say?All men have the stars,but they are not the same things for different people. For some, who are travelers, the stars are guides. For others they are no more than little lights in the sky. For others, who are scholars, they are problems. For my businessman they were wealth. But all these stars are silent. You--you alone--will have the stars as no one else has them--What are you trying to say?In one of the stars I shall be living. In one of them I shall be laughing. And so it will be as if all the stars were laughing, when you look at the sky at night . . . You--only you--will have stars that can laugh!And when your sorrow is comforted (time soothes all sorrows) you will be content that you have known me. You will always be my friend. You will want to laugh with me. And you will sometimes open your window, so, for that pleasure . . . And your friends will be properly astonished to see you laughing as you look up at the sky! Then you will say to them, 'Yes, the stars always make me laugh!' And they will think you are crazy. It will be a very shabby trick that I shall have played on you . . .It will be as if, in place of the stars, I had given you a great number of little bells that knew how to laugh . . .Tonight--you know . . . Do not come.I shall not leave you,I shall look as if I were suffering. I shall look a little as if I were dying. It is like that. Do not come to see that. It is not worth the trouble . . .I shall not leave you.I tell you--it is also because of the snake. He must not bite you. Snakes--they are malicious creatures. This one might bite you just for fun . . .I shall not leave you.It is true that they have no more poison for a second bite.Ah! You are there . . .It was wrong of you to come. You will suffer. I shall look as if I were dead; and that will not be true . . .You understand . . . it is too far. I cannot carry this body with me. It is too heavy.But it will be like an old abandoned shell. There is nothing sad about old shells . . .You know, it will be very nice. I, too, shall look at the stars. All the stars will be wells with a rusty pulley. All the stars will pour out fresh water for me to drink . . .That will be so amusing! You will have five hundred million little bells, and I shall have five hundred million springs of fresh water . . . And he too said nothing more, because he was crying . . .  And he sat down, because he was afraid. Then he said, again:  I too sat down, because I was not able to stand up any longer. I am tired.Surely not! The little prince shuts his flower under her glass globe every night, and he watches over his sheep very carefully . . .At some moment or other one is absent-minded, and that is enough! On some one evening he forgot the glass globe, or the sheep got out, without making any noise, in the night . . .